BotaniScan
Science Fair 2024 - Anish Kumar
This is Anish Kumar's Science fair for the 20204-2025 school year. 

Abstract:
My project aimed to solve the problem of extra expenses for farmers on unnecessary pesticides and food shortages due to unidentified or misidentified plant/tree diseases. To create this solution, I found sample images online which I downloaded from Kaggle, and using Google’s Teachable Machine, produced and exported an AI model that I used in a website I made. I customized the website and integrated the model into it using HTML, CSS, and Javascript, before uploading and hosting the website on Git Hub. After testing using images of diseased leaves from tomato plants, from a test data set of the initial Kaggle images, the model operated at a 93.75% accuracy, enough to operate effectively in the real world. My solution was validated as it completed the criteria of operating at a 75% accuracy or above, in fact far above that and with enough accuracy for commercial levels, and also useful and easily accessible for anyone with a laptop and internet connection. Farmers can use the website that I have created to efficiently analyze unhealthy crops for diseases, allowing them to spend less on pesticides for diseases that their plants don’t have, and to prevent crop shortages due to their crops dying untreated. To summarize, this tool will be able to prevent crop shortages due to diseases, the most common reason for crop shortages, decrease expenses for farmers, so they can make a better livelihood, and promote universal welfare through the development of AI.

Acknowledgments: Thanks to Mr. Mark Hanning-Lee on Ask-A-Scientist Night for giving me input on my slideshow presentation, Google’s Teachable Machine©, which I used for this project, Mrs. Padma Ramani, for building my foundation in HTML & CSS, and finally, my parents, Srividya & Ashwin Kumar, for providing valuable input on my final product, providing me with the resources that I need to succeed, whether it be time or something objective, and most importantly, being the best parents I could ever ask for. 
